---
layout: post
title: "Call for abstracts: DH & Lib DH2019 pre-conference “Libraries As Research Partner In Digital Humanities”"
---
Libraries and other cultural heritage organisations (CHOs) and their staff occupy a central role in digital humanities. Given the importance many of these organisations attach to their role as supporters of research, a case can be made for the opportunity and need for libraries and their staff to position and assert themselves as partners in research.

### Theme and programme
This full-day pre-conference on 8 July, aims to address the complexities of positioning libraries (and other CHOs) as digital humanities research partners. The question of CHOs and librarians as service providers or partners is a well-established, rich territory, with implications for labour and status. However, many are still finding their place in digital humanities due to questions of institutional commitments and external expectations. This pre-conference invites contributions addressing the topic of building trustworthy and sustainable research partnerships in digital (humanities) research.

### Call for abstracts
We invite short papers, lightning talks, panel and interactive sessions on among others the following themes:
* Collections as data  - building, maintaining, publishing, and contextualising
* Building and sustaining a technical infrastructure
* Building and maintaining Library Labs
* Sustainable organisational commitments and policies
* Staff skill-building / Library Carpentry
* Invisible or precarious labour / credit creep
* Relationship(-building)

**Short papers** allowing participants to share projects or more established work in a short presentation of 15 minutes within a parallel session.

**Lightning talks** allowing participants to share ideas, recent projects, or ongoing work in a short plenary presentation of three minutes.
Workshops are intended for a smaller audience (10-20 participants) and should be interactive or practical in nature. They can be either 60 or 90 minutes.

**Panel sessions** allowing panelists and participants to discuss a certain topic in more detail. Panels should consist of a maximum of 5 people and will be part of a parallel session. They can be either 60 or 90 minutes.

Next to this we invite library(-related) organisations to present their work at a market place which will be set up during the breaks. To participate in this, please send a short description of your organisation to lotte.wilms@kb.nl. All market place attendees will be asked to present their stand in a plenary lightning talk. Please note that space is limited.

### Submission of proposals
Submissions should include the following:

* For papers and lightning talks: General abstract (300-500 words) outlining your work, research question, results and possible challenges you faced.
* For workshops: General abstract (300-500 words) outlining the proposed session, (if applicable) technical support needed, description and size of intended audience.
* For panel sessions: General abstract (300-500 words) outlining the proposed discussion, description of panelists
Contact info and a short description of research interests of the authors.

The pre-conference will be held off-site in the KB National Library of the Netherlands. Transportation from Utrecht to Den Haag and vice versa will be arranged. By submitting an abstract authors agree that at least one presenter will be present in person or via remote access according to the ADHO guidelines for remote presentations. Abstracts and papers/sessions are accepted in all official ADHO languages (English, Spanish, German, French, and Italian). However, no translation services will be in place during the event.

The organisers are working to make this event virtually accessible via livestream, recording, and sharing of slides and other research materials. If accepted, the applicant agrees to deposit any slides used in the presentation. If the presentation is held in the main auditorium, the presenter will appear in a livestream. Should you prefer not to be filmed, please indicate this in your abstract.

Please submit your proposal before the deadline via this form:
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1dJpafX8SMabIgUXbTAtZVqei_1HbACb6UbpZ891s-qg/edit

If you have any questions, please contact ---

### Timeline
**Proposal deadline:** 01-05-2019 23:59 CET

**Notification of acceptance**: 24-05-2019

### Local organizers
* Lotte Wilms, KB National Library of the Netherlands
* Martine Klaassen, KB National Library of the Netherlands
* Steven Claeyssens, KB National Library of the Netherlands
* Marian Lefferts, Consortium of European Research Libraries

### Programme committee
* Hege Hosoien, National Library of Norway
* Sarah Potvin, Texas A&M University
* Isabel Galina, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México
* Silvia Gutiérrez, El Colegio de México
* Andreas Degkwitz, Humboldt University of Berlin
* Tamara Butigan, National Library of Serbia
* Dawn Childress, University of California, Los Angeles
* Steven Claeyssens, KB National Library of the Netherlands
* Marian Lefferts, Consortium of European Research Libraries
* Lotte Wilms, KB National Library of the Netherlands
